                             13 STEPS TO INNER CONTROL
                                  author unknown


1. I honor the energy of *birch*, for a new beginning. I am able to change 
myself as I will to do. So mote it be!

2. I honor the energy of *rowan* for protection against evil enchantment. I will 
not hobble myself with the chains of past failures. So mote it be!

3. I honor the energy of *alder*, for the protection of my inner oracle. I will 
listen to the voice of the Goddess Within. So mote it be!

4. I honor the energy of *willow*, for the lunar rhythms within me as a woman. I 
will recognize and heed my own body's cycles. So mote it be!

5. I honor the energy of *ash*, the magician's staff. I will recognize that "as 
above, so below," I play a part in the larger scheme of things. I will link my 
inner and outer worlds. So mote it be!

6. I honor the energy of *hawthorn* for cleansing and restraint. I will choose 
what I place within my body, and empty myself of all that  violates my personal 
well-being. So mote it be!

7. I honor the energy of *oak*, the doorway to the mysteries. I will call upon 
the strength of the Horned One when I feel in need of protection. So mote it be!

8. I honor the energy of *holly*, spear of the warrior. I will not remain 
passive and victimized, but will choose to fight for my own freedom. So mote it 
be!

9. I honor the energy of *hazel*, the tree of wisdom. I will heed my own inner 
intuitions, and will be wise and informed in my choices. So mote it be!

10. I honor the energy of *vine*, the tree of conviviality and celebration. I 
will love myself and will celebrate life, not seeing the choices I make as 
deprivations but gifts. So mote it be!

11. I honor the energy of *ivy*, the spiral to center. I will do all that I do 
because of my own inner desires. I will listen to myself, and will remain 
balanced and centered while I do this work. So mote it be!

12. I honor the energy of *reed*, the tool of the hunt. I will take direct 
action when necessary to protect myself, including the "killing" of old 
patterns, friendships and associations which harm me. So mote it be!

13. I honor the energy of *elder* which sees the end from the beginning. 
Throughout many lifetimes I have been here. I have the knowledge that I have 
changed myself again and again. I will start from where I am now, and continue 
to persist in my path. I will succeed. So mote it be!

As you see, the pagan focus is not to surrender responsibility for oneself to a 
higher power, but to take responsibility and make choices appropriate to a 
Goddess (that's YOU...) Feel free to change this as you wish.



