<para>
  Jim Mochel
</para>
<para>
  &lt;<emphasis>jmochel@saltations.org</emphasis>
  (<email>jmochel@saltations.org</email>)&gt;
</para>
<blockquote>
  <para>
    <link linkend="that-which-is-unseen"><emphasis>That which is
    Unseen</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="overview"><emphasis>Overview</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="the-spirit-world"><emphasis>The Spirit
    World</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="the-occult"><emphasis>The Occult</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="the-divine"><emphasis>The Divine</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="the-word"><emphasis>The Word</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="world-of-spirit"><emphasis>World of
    Spirit</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="feel"><emphasis>Feel</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="at-the-center"><emphasis>At the
    Center</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="pulls-from"><emphasis>Pulls from</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="pushed-to"><emphasis>Pushed to</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="using-their-own"><emphasis>Using their
    own</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="types"><emphasis>Types</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="practitioners"><emphasis>Practitioners</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="practitioner"><emphasis>Practitioner</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="opinions-of-others-.."><emphasis>Description</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="opinions-of-others-.."><emphasis>Constraints</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="opinions-of-others-.."><emphasis>Benefits</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="opinions-of-others-.."><emphasis>Typical
    Castings</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="opinions-of-others-.."><emphasis>Opinions of others
    ..</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="phenomena"><emphasis>Phenomena</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="spirit"><emphasis>Spirit</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="world-of-the-occult"><emphasis>World of the
    Occult</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="feel-1"><emphasis>Feel</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="types-1"><emphasis>Types</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="practitioners-1"><emphasis>Practitioners</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="phenomena-1"><emphasis>Phenomena</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="spirit-1"><emphasis>Spirit</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="the-fundamentals"><emphasis>The
    Fundamentals</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="the-eternals"><emphasis>The
    Eternals</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="belief"><emphasis>Belief</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="stream"><emphasis>Stream</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="fabric"><emphasis>Fabric</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="the-elementals"><emphasis>The
    Elementals</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="basic-elementals"><emphasis>Basic
    Elementals</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="ephemerals"><emphasis>Ephemerals</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="practitioners-2"><emphasis>Practicioners</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="mana"><emphasis>Mana</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="world-of-the-word"><emphasis>World of the
    Word</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="feel-2"><emphasis>Feel</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="types-2"><emphasis>Types</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="practitioners-3"><emphasis>Practitioners</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="phenomena-2"><emphasis>Phenomena</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="self"><emphasis>Self</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="granted"><emphasis>Granted</emphasis></link>
  </para>
  <para>
    <link linkend="spirit-2"><emphasis>Spirit</emphasis></link>
  </para>
</blockquote>
<chapter id="that-which-is-unseen">
  <title>That which is Unseen</title>
  <para>
  </para>
</chapter>
<chapter id="overview">
  <title>Overview</title>
  <sect1 id="the-spirit-world">
    <title>The Spirit World</title>
    <para>
      ..Spirit Winds.
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="the-occult">
    <title>The Occult</title>
    <para>
      ..Ley lines, Nexus.
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="the-divine">
    <title>The Divine</title>
    <sect2 id="the-word">
      <title>The Word</title>
      <para>
        .Under all lies the word...Dragon Lines ... Holy Places..
        Clearings...
      </para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
</chapter>
<chapter id="section">
  <title></title>
  <para>
  </para>
</chapter>
<chapter id="section-1">
  <title></title>
  <para>
  </para>
</chapter>
<chapter id="world-of-spirit">
  <title>World of Spirit </title>
  <para>
    ...“Embracing, you become embraced. Clearing your vision, you become
    clear. Accepting the World, you embrace Spirit. Bearing and
    nurturing, Creating but not owning, Giving without demanding,
    Controlling without authority, This is Spirit”
  </para>
  <para>
    What spirit is...what it looks like...
  </para>
  <sect1 id="feel">
    <title>Feel</title>
    <sect2 id="at-the-center">
      <title>At the Center</title>
      <para>
        Totems
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="pulls-from">
      <title>Pulls from</title>
      <para>
        Spirit Monks. ...Flows with...Ki
      </para>
      <para>
        Summoners. ...Uses...
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="pushed-to">
      <title>Pushed to</title>
      <para>
        Shaman. ...
      </para>
      <para>
        Spirit Talker. ...
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="using-their-own">
      <title>Using their own</title>
      <para>
        Psychics. Psi...
      </para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="types">
    <title>Types</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="practitioners">
    <title>Practitioners</title>
    <sect2 id="practitioner">
      <title>Practitioner</title>
      <sect3 id="description">
        <title>Description</title>
        <para>
        </para>
      </sect3>
      <sect3 id="constraints">
        <title>Constraints</title>
        <para>
        </para>
      </sect3>
      <sect3 id="benefits">
        <title>Benefits</title>
        <para>
        </para>
      </sect3>
      <sect3 id="typical-castings">
        <title>Typical Castings</title>
        <para>
        </para>
      </sect3>
      <sect3 id="opinions-of-others-..">
        <title>Opinions of others ..</title>
        <para>
        </para>
      </sect3>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="phenomena">
    <title>Phenomena</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="spirit">
    <title>Spirit</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
</chapter>
<chapter id="world-of-the-occult">
  <title>World of the Occult</title>
  <sect1 id="feel-1">
    <title>Feel </title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="types-1">
    <title>Types</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="practitioners-1">
    <title>Practitioners</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="phenomena-1">
    <title>Phenomena</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="spirit-1">
    <title>Spirit</title>
    <para>
      Magic Is the ability to manipulate mana. Spell casters use their
      own internal energies to manipulate Mana. It is not known where
      Mana comes from, but mana is generally all around us, it flows and
      pool. The caster uses their own energy to raise, focus, and apply
      mana. The act of raising, focusing and applying energy is called
      spell casting. That spellcasting can be very unstructured all the
      way up to very structured.
    </para>
    <para>
      If you view mana as a kind of water then the very unstructured
      forms of spell casting are like scooping the water up in your
      hands and splashing them at someone as opposed to creating dams
      and dikes and pipes and hoses to deliver the water where you want
      to go. As you go from less structured to more structured it takes
      less energy to achieve the same result while taking more time and
      often requiring more care and detail work. The simplest form of
      casting are cantrips, which of the equivalent of splashing water
      out of a pool with your hand. They are blazingly quick, not
      particularly effective for anything beyond very small results like
      lighting a candle. The next form is slightly more structured, and
      it is called sorcery. A sorcerer is kind of like a kid with a hand
      pump who can pull up the water and direct it while dynamically
      changing with the circumstances so that they can redirect the
      water at the drop of a hat. The next level up, Wizardry, is much
      more structured but it does come in a range of complexities from
      simple structures with tightly focused purposes (Squirt guns), to
      more general Complicated structures (household plumbing), all the
      way up to monumental works (the Hoover dam)
    </para>
    <para>
      Many has types or flavours
    </para>
    <para>
      Each type of mana behaves in its own particular way especially
      when being manipulated by the caster or when interacting with each
      other. Some of these ways are very logical. The magical element of
      water is very effective in combating the magical element of fire.
      The magical element of fire takes more work to control but
      produces more damage than the magical element of air. The magical
      element of dark is diametrically opposed to the magical element of
      light. There are some energies that human mages can barely get
      access to and even when they are casting with them they are often
      on the edge of being out of control. There are also energies that
      are so phenomenally dangerous that only the most powerful of mages
      can even attempt to work with them.
    </para>
    <para>
      Mana is often used in or generated by the activities of word or
      spirit, but never as aprimary part of the activity.
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="the-fundamentals">
    <title>The Fundamentals</title>
    <para>
      The insanely dangerous energies. Chaos or Wild Magics. Wild magics
      are the magic of creation. They are profoundly chaotic, almost
      impossible to control, and wildly powerful. The world is designed
      so that the structure of the world prevents easy access to wild
      magics. Casting with wild magic is very much like a human trying
      to redirect lightning with their bare hands. They have a name for
      that type of spellcaster, the name is &quot;fuse&quot;.
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="the-eternals">
    <title>The Eternals</title>
    <para>
      The sometimes I can cast with them energies The eternal energies
      are a set of energies that are slow to summon, slippery to hold,
      hard to redirect, often difficult to banish and often have lasting
      effects and echoes. In general even though they are actually
      highly ordered and structured, that Order is rarely apparent to
      the spellcaster. These energies are known as Belief, Stream, and
      Fabric
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="belief">
    <title>Belief</title>
    <para>
      Belief is the energy generated by the exercise of faith. It is
      very difficult to get a handle on and generally only the gods can
      reliably use it. This really is the power of miracles. It can be
      cast and manipulated by mages and is used by priests and
      priestesses. It despite that there is a fundamental difference
      between when a mage or priest attempts to manipulate belief and
      when the divine is present. Don't make the mistake of believing
      that a priest is simply a mage. A priest is a channel for their
      deity.
    </para>
    <sect2 id="stream">
      <title>Stream</title>
      <para>
        Stream is the energy of time and possibilities. Like belief is
        very difficult to get a handle on and generally only the gods
        can reliably use it. Mages and shamans and others such as
        oracles can use it in much the same way that humans can ride a
        rhinoceros. You may be physically able to do it, but you really
        don't have much ability to control the direction it goes.
        Someone who is using Stream can see what is happened in the past
        (Generally much easier than any other type of usage of Stream)
        as well as get a sense of what may be in the future. In general
        the foreseeings done with Stream are highly influenced by the
        mental state of the person doing the seeing. In other words,
        they often see the types of things they would expect to see.
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="fabric">
      <title>Fabric</title>
      <para>
        Fabric is the energy of space. Like belief and stream is very
        difficult to get a handle on and only the gods can reliably use
        it. But it is relatively easier to control spell castings with
        Fabric. This is the energy associated with seeing things at a
        distance (clairvoyance) as well as being associated with the
        Really cool spells like teleportation.
      </para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="the-elementals">
    <title>The Elementals</title>
    <para>
      The bread-and-butter of most spell casters Elemental powers are
      fairly easy for a spellcaster to get a handle on. The world is
      designed in such a way that mages have relatively easy access to
      the elemental energies. They are generally fast to summon and easy
      to manipulate and behave according to various rules and
      principles. They have their own kind of order and will behave in
      predictable ways. Elemental energies are less likely to have
      lasting magical effects then the Eternal energies and they can
      have have fairly lasting physical effects. Most creatures are
      actually composed of a balance of the elemental energies in a
      dynamic balance. Too much exposure to any one elemental energy can
      imbalance an individual and make them sick. One of the first
      things that most spell casters learn is how to manipulate the
      energy without taking it into themselves and thus unbalancing
      themselves. The elemental energies are:
    </para>
    <sect2 id="basic-elementals">
      <title>Basic Elementals</title>
      <para>
        Fire - Fire is quick to summon hard to control or banish. Losing
        control usually means something gets scorched. In general fire
        likes to do damage and consume things.
      </para>
      <para>
        Water - Water is less quick to summon, almost as hard to control
        as fire, but it is rarely necessary to banish it because you can
        usually just let it dissipate and run off itself. Water is
        harder to focus in order to damage.
      </para>
      <para>
        Air - Air is quick to summon and hard to control or banish the
        losing control rarely involves major damage. Air is very hard to
        focus in order to damage though it moves quickly
      </para>
      <para>
        Earth - Earth is slow to summon, hard to move, and slow to stop.
        Once going, Earth can do a great deal of damage
      </para>
      <para>
        Light - Light is quick to summon, easy to move, relatively easy
        to stop although you do need to do it quickly. In general Light
        does not tend to do a great deal of damage but it's side effects
        are often more significant ( temporarily blinding someone,
        distracting someone etc.)
      </para>
      <para>
        Dark - Dark is also quick to summon, easy to move and relatively
        easy to stop. Like light it does not tend to do a great deal of
        damage but again its side effects are often significant.
      </para>
      <para>
        Life - Life energies are slightly slower to summon then light
        and dark, as well as being very hard to focus on something. Life
        energies are lousy for doing damage with. You can conceivably
        hit somebody with so much life that they are unbalanced. Life
        energies are better for certain types of healings and
        divinations. They are very useful for doing damage to creatures
        animated by deah such as the undead.
      </para>
      <para>
        Death - Death energies are slightly slower to summon them light
        and dark, as well as being very hard to focus on something. By
        the very nature Death energies are useful in injuring living
        creatures.
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="ephemerals">
      <title>Ephemerals</title>
      <para>
        Shadow - Shadow is normally a fleeting type of energy that is
        created by the interaction of light and dark. Sometimes you can
        find pools of shadow at twilight but generally it exists in
        those locations between light and dark. While shadow is not the
        most reliable of elemental materials it does have some
        advantages for several key actions: such as confusing a person's
        eyes, clouding their minds or causing fear. Shadow also has a
        &quot;resonance&quot; with other blocks of shadow. As a result,
        Shadow mages have easier access to the ability to walk from
        shadow to shadow.
      </para>
      <para>
        Nature - &quot;Life is, Nature will be&quot;. In general nature
        occurs where there is a preponderance of life and a small amount
        of death. There is a natural dynamically generated energy called
        nature. Nature is the energy that binds most living things to
        the natural order.
      </para>
      <para>
        Shamans often deal with Nature.
      </para>
      <para>
        Decay - Decay occurs where there is a preponderance of death and
        a smaller amount of life. Decay is the energy that binds most
        Undead to that unnatural order.
      </para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
</chapter>
<chapter id="practitioners-2">
  <title>Practitioners</title>
  <sect1 id="mana">
    <title>Mana</title>
    <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
      <listitem>
        <blockquote>
          <para>
            wizard. A wizard (wyzard) is a male practicer of magic(k).
            Often this title was used interchangeably with witch. In the
            middle ages, the title became more common with users of HIGH
            magic(K), or what is known as ceremonial magic(k). This was
            different from the magic(k) practiced by many people of the
            heath, known as heathens or pagans, who tended to practice
            low or natural herbal magic which relied less on christian
            and Hebrew themes and overtones and more on nature spirits.
          </para>
        </blockquote>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <blockquote>
          <para>
            Magician. A Magician historically was not sex specific and
            was applied to either males or females who practice a form
            of magic(k). In time it has been used almost exclusively to
            mean stage magicians, who use illusions and slight of hand
            to appear to obtain some sort of occult knowledge. But a
            practicing magician, not a stage magician, is simply a
            practitioner of magic(K).
          </para>
        </blockquote>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <blockquote>
          <para>
            sorcerer. A sorcerer is a practitioner of magic(K), male or
            female with the female version of the word often being
            sorceress but sorcerer is still appropriate, but this label
            has been historically associated with malicious intent, so
            someone who uses magic(k) for ill or for negative ends.
            (also sorcerers are also associated with conjurations and
            not just ritual magic(k) or talisman work though a sorcerer
            may be proficient in both.
          </para>
        </blockquote>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <blockquote>
          <para>
            witch. A warlock is a badly used term. People ignorantly use
            it interchangeably for the male version of the word witch,
            but it is not. It means a liar or someone who is a traitor.
            In it's worse terms it means a person who has sealed his
            soul with an demonic entity, hence why the name was labeled
            onto male witches (or wizards) during the 14th century in
            Europe, as a form of disgrace. I hope that helps you.
          </para>
        </blockquote>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <blockquote>
          <para>
            warlock. A warlock is a badly used term. People ignorantly
            use it interchangeably for the male version of the word
            witch, but it is not. It means a liar or someone who is a
            traitor. In it's worse terms it means a person who has
            sealed his soul with an demonic entity, hence why the name
            was labeled onto male witches (or wizards) during the 14th
            century in Europe, as a form of disgrace. I hope that helps
            you.
          </para>
        </blockquote>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="world-of-the-word">
    <title>World of the Word</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="feel-2">
    <title>Feel</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="types-2">
    <title>Types</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="practitioners-3">
    <title>Practitioners</title>
    <para>
    </para>
  </sect1>
  <sect1 id="phenomena-2">
    <title>Phenomena</title>
    <para>
      Word
    </para>
    <sect2 id="self">
      <title>Self</title>
      <para>
        Demi-deities. ...
      </para>
      <para>
        Dragons. ...
      </para>
      <para>
        Namers. ...
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="granted">
      <title>Granted</title>
      <para>
        Avatars. ...
      </para>
      <para>
        Priests. ...
      </para>
      <para>
        Oracles. …
      </para>
      <para>
        Chapter 4. The Divine
      </para>
      <para>
        Ur. They ruled, they hunted, and were solitary. They knew only
        the rule of power. Cooperation did not exist for them. They
        ruled by sword. Their magic was of the most savage and basic but
        powerful. They rode the dragons. Children Urvile Granted
        Demondim &quot;Tor'' and their noble leaders the
        &quot;Lordim-Tor'' Duwan Kurrok Mergoth. Kailm (Forerunners of
        the Haroch)
      </para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>
</chapter>
<chapter id="spirit-2">
  <title>Spirit</title>
  <para>
    “Spirit is in us. Spirit is all around us. Spirit is the
    balance.”“Spirit does not knock, yet does not intrude!”
  </para>
  <para>
    5. Totem
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    6. Spirit Talker
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Becoming a Shaman
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    7. Psychic
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    8. Spirit Monk
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    9. Mystic
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    10. Summoner
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    11. Rupa-Kechil
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    12. Native Borne
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 5. Totem
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 6. Spirit Talker
  </para>
  <para>
    AKA Shaman, Witch doctor, Wiseman
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Becoming a Shaman
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Shamans live in two worlds, the world of flesh and the world of
    spirits. Since the world was young there have been those who walked
    between both worlds, existing in both but belonging to neither. It
    is a shaman’s job to serve both worlds. The shaman serves the spirit
    world by helping keep a balance between the realm of spirit and the
    physical realm. The shaman usually aids the spirits by performing
    rituals of cleansing, or performing rituals to thank the spirits or
    offer the spirits his body to interact with this world for a short
    time. Spirits will often grant boons for such services. Deals can
    also be made with spirits.
  </para>
  <para>
    Shamans will often take on strange taboos which can last for month
    to years, or maybe his entire life. If these taboos are broken then
    the shaman loses face in the eyes of the spirit world. But remember,
    there must always be compensation. The way of the spirits is the way
    of balance. There is always a cost for every service. Everything
    must balance in the end. That is not to say that a shaman cannot do
    something from the goodness of his own heart, but that every favor
    given is a favor owed and every gain comes with a loss. In the
    description of some of the shaman’s bonuses and rituals it mentions
    things like pure places or natural places. Anywhere it says anything
    like this it means a place either taken back by nature and
    relatively left alone by man, or places that man have never been.
  </para>
  <para>
    Becoming a Shaman
  </para>
  <para>
    They say the first step is the hardest, and this is especially true
    of shamans. In order to become a shaman one must die first. When the
    shaman-to-be has a near-death experience (whether intentional or
    not) and his soul leaves his body, he is met by a spirit guide. It
    is the spirit guide’s duty to explain all that is expected of the
    shaman, the hardships he may have to endure and that he will never
    again be truly a part of mortal society. The spirit will not
    sugarcoat this, the shaman must be fully aware of what will become
    of him if he makes this deal. If the deal is made, the guiding
    spirit becomes the shaman's totem spirit and the shaman is given a
    permanent taboo, the first of many. The totem spirit will teach the
    shaman what he needs to know to carry out his duties, and what his
    rewards will be
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Shamans must honour at least one taboo to connect himself to his
    totem. This Taboo is a life long Taboo. Taboos need not be difficult
    to fulfill, but it does make the shaman stand out. All Shamans get
    -1 to Social stat. This negative does not count when dealing with
    the spirits. If a shaman breaks a taboo he loses the favor of the
    spirit world. He still retains the ability to interact with the
    spirit world but loses all bonuses and powers gained from spirits,
    and none but the most corrupt and wicked spirits will deal with the
    shaman until the shaman makes amends with the spirit whose taboo he
    broke.
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Spirit Sight
  </para>
  <para>
    While performing specific rituals, or while under the effect of
    certain drugs, the shaman can see and hear the spirit world as vague
    shadows. Also, spirits can see through to this world as a vague
    shadow, but shamans glow brightly for them. Once a spirit sees a
    shaman, the spirits can then communicate with the shaman.
  </para>
  <para>
    Only alcohol or natural drugs will allow the shaman to see the
    spirit world. Shamans are immune to hallucinogenic or mind- altering
    effects of these drugs and alcohol (though they may still suffer
    from slurred speech and lowered reflexes and reaction time).
    Synthetic, man-made drugs will not allow the shaman to see the
    spirit world. The shaman can look into the spirit world without the
    use of drugs or alcohol or without performing a ritual.
  </para>
  <para>
    Spirit Possession/Channel
  </para>
  <para>
    The spirit can use any powers it has in the Material realm while
    possessing the shaman. Shamans know the difference between spirits
    and demons and get a + 5 to save against demonic possession.
  </para>
  <para>
    Commune
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Awaken the Spirit
  </para>
  <para>
    All things, be they animate or inanimate, have a spirit. This is not
    to say all things have a soul (a common mistake), but deep down all
    things are aware. A shaman can awaken the spirit in an object or
    being and communicate with it. An awakened object will strive to
    become the utmost of what the object can be. Basis of Native Borne
    Craft agic ?
  </para>
  <para>
    Create Fetish
  </para>
  <para>
    Fetishes are object imbued with either the essence of a spirit or a
    spirit itself making it a magical item. The items containing the
    essence of a spirit can be used to contact the spirit whose essence
    it contains.
  </para>
  <para>
    Natural Healer
  </para>
  <para>
    Shamans have a long tradition as healers. They can fight off corrupt
    spirits causing illness and can ask the plants and herbs what
    medicinal usage they may have. All shamans get a +5 ranks in
    Holistic Medicine.
  </para>
  <para>
    Totem Spirit
  </para>
  <para>
    All shamans get a totem spirit. The shaman can always reach out his
    voice and call his totem guide to him. A shaman will usually only do
    this if absolutely necessary. The totem spirit is under no actual
    obligation to come as soon as called, but most will do their best to
    get to the shaman as quickly as possible.
  </para>
  <para>
    The Spirit Way
  </para>
  <para>
    Shamans must learn the way of the spirit in order to help them and
    make deals with them. After the shaman makes the deal with his totem
    spirit, the totem spirit begins teaching him the ways of the spirit.
    All shamans get +5 to Spirit Lore. They also get a +2 to Law skill.
    They also understand the language of the spirits.
  </para>
  <para>
    Rituals
  </para>
  <para>
    The shaman deals with the spiritual world through magical rituals
    usually taught by the shaman's totem spirit. All shamans get +1
    ranks in Magic Skill.
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 7. Psychic
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 8. Spirit Monk
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 9. Mystic
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 10. Summoner
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 11. Rupa-Kechil
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of word .
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 12. Native Borne
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of word .
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Part III. Occult
  </para>
  <para>
    “...”
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    13. Elves
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    14. Mystic
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    15. Sorcerer
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    16. Wizard
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    17. Changelings
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    18. Lycanthropes
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    19. Duwan
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    20. Uru
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    21. Kurrock
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    22. Occult Casting
  </para>
  <para>
    The flow of casting.
  </para>
  <para>
    Gathering
  </para>
  <para>
    Focusing
  </para>
  <para>
    Applying or loosing
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Cantrips
  </para>
  <para>
    Sorceries
  </para>
  <para>
    Spells
  </para>
  <para>
    Ritual
  </para>
  <para>
    Rites
  </para>
  <para>
    23. Occult Castings Design
  </para>
  <para>
    Attributes used in spell design
  </para>
  <para>
    Energy Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Actions
  </para>
  <para>
    Components
  </para>
  <para>
    Components Properties
  </para>
  <para>
    Target Type
  </para>
  <para>
    Spell Statistics
  </para>
  <para>
    Attriubutes that are purchased in design.
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Time
  </para>
  <para>
    Range
  </para>
  <para>
    Duration
  </para>
  <para>
    AOE.
  </para>
  <para>
    Basic Rules of Spell Design
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 13. Elves
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 14. Mystic
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 15. Sorcerer
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 16. Wizard
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 17. Changelings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 18. Lycanthropes
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of Spirit and Magery.
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 19. Duwan
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of Spirit .
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 20. Uru
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of Spirit.
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 21. Kurrock
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of Magery.
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 22. Occult Casting
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    The flow of casting.
  </para>
  <para>
    Gathering
  </para>
  <para>
    Focusing
  </para>
  <para>
    Applying or loosing
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Cantrips
  </para>
  <para>
    Sorceries
  </para>
  <para>
    Spells
  </para>
  <para>
    Ritual
  </para>
  <para>
    Rites
  </para>
  <para>
    The flow of casting.
  </para>
  <para>
    There are three steps in any manipulation of mana. (whether it be
    cantrip, spell, ritual or rite). The first is gathering the energy,
    the second is focusing that energy and the third is releasing it.
  </para>
  <para>
    Gathering
  </para>
  <para>
    athering the energy is a fundamental part of the casting process.
    Most spells will use the mage's internal energy to summon and
    manipulate the specific type of energy needed. How well a character
    can access their own power is governed by their PSI stat. Using the
    power to gather energy expends Mental Fatigue. This MFT can be
    supplemented by energy from Material Components, Magic Items, Living
    Sacrifice, Worship, Physical Exertion, or just by being given the
    energy by another. The skill used in gathering the energy is
    Manipulate Energy. An ME skill is needed for each type of energy to
    be manipulated. ME: skills such as ME:Fire can be used to make
    perception rolls for detecting the energy in question. A perception
    skill for a specific energy type can be used to determine the
    intensity and extent of the energy.
  </para>
  <para>
    Focusing
  </para>
  <para>
    In focusing the energy the caster directs and channels the energies
    toward a specific end. Material components used during this part of
    the spell would be used for channeling the energies involved
    \footnote{ Material Component could be damaged (magically) if it
    cannot contain the energies involved}. Somatic and verbal components
    add to this part of the spell process as does any meditative state
    or trance.. The mage determines how much energy will be applied at
    this point. The time taken in focusing the energies is spent in
    setting up the various actions to be performed by the energy. The
    time spent in applying the energy is fairly constant compared to the
    time spent focusing the energies.
  </para>
  <para>
    Applying or loosing
  </para>
  <para>
    The energy released should follow the form laid out by the caster
    when he focused on the spell
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Spell types Spells vary in their complexity and in the time it takes
    to cast them. There are special names for spell casts of a given
    complexity and cast time. Those names are Sorceries, Cantrips,
    Spells, Rituals and Rites.
  </para>
  <para>
    Cantrips
  </para>
  <para>
    Cantrips are simple magicks. They are simple in structure and low
    powered. Often simple material components will supply the power
    needed. A caster casting cantrips needs to have a skill in
    Casting:Cantrips in order to be considered ranked in the action they
    are attempting.
  </para>
  <para>
    Sorceries
  </para>
  <para>
    Sorceries are castings that have a structure imposed by the caster
    at the time of cast and are generally fairly flexible.
  </para>
  <para>
    Spells
  </para>
  <para>
    Spells are ritualized sorceries. They have a structure and effect
    that are determined when they are designed. Thus a caster using a
    ``Throw Fire'' spell may only vary the specific effects of the spell
    taht are designed to be varied.
  </para>
  <para>
    Ritual
  </para>
  <para>
    A ritual is a highly structured and detailed spell that involves the
    manipulation of more than one mages worth of energy at a time. In
    order to do this the caster must gather power from some outside
    source. To cast rituals requires the Hold Energy skill for energy
    type being used.
  </para>
  <para>
    Rites
  </para>
  <para>
    A rite is a ritual that requires the work of two or more casters
    during its casting.
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 23. Occult Castings Design
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Attributes used in spell design
  </para>
  <para>
    Energy Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Actions
  </para>
  <para>
    Components
  </para>
  <para>
    Components Properties
  </para>
  <para>
    Target Type
  </para>
  <para>
    Spell Statistics
  </para>
  <para>
    Attriubutes that are purchased in design.
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Time
  </para>
  <para>
    Range
  </para>
  <para>
    Duration
  </para>
  <para>
    AOE.
  </para>
  <para>
    Basic Rules of Spell Design
  </para>
  <para>
    Spell design consists of isolating the various attributes of the
    spell such as the energies to be used and the actions to be taken
    and using these attributes to add or subtract from a pool of Spell
    Design Points (SDP). Factors in Spell Design are
  </para>
  <para>
    Attributes used in spell design
  </para>
  <para>
    Energy Type - This describes the types of energies to be
    manipulated.
  </para>
  <para>
    Actions
  </para>
  <para>
    This is what the energies are to be used for.
  </para>
  <para>
    Energy Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Personal Energies: Power and Psi. Both are easy to summon from
    within or raise via sacrifice.
  </para>
  <para>
    Eternal energies : Belief, Fabric and Stream. Belief is the energy
    created by the worship or investment of faith in another entity,
    being, or object. Stream is the energy derived from the dynamics of
    the time continua. Fabric is the energy derived from the shifts of
    equilibrium of seemingly static forces involved in the here and now.
  </para>
  <para>
    The Elemental energies are Light, Dark, Fire, Air, Water, Earth,
    Life, Death.
  </para>
  <para>
    The Ephemeral energies are Shadow, Nature, and Decay
  </para>
  <para>
    Actions
  </para>
  <para>
    This is what the energies are to be used for. These actually spend
    time during the Focusing process. These actions are often described
    in a pairing between an action and its opposite.
  </para>
  <para>
    Actions
  </para>
  <para>
    Name Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Detection Identifying the existence of something.
  </para>
  <para>
    Concealment Hiding the existence of something
  </para>
  <para>
    Divination Determining something about an objects nature.
  </para>
  <para>
    Anti-Divination Blocking the determination of the attributes of an
    object or occurence.
  </para>
  <para>
    Summoning Bringing energy to the immediate locale .
  </para>
  <para>
    Banishment Returning energy from the immediate locale to its origin.
  </para>
  <para>
    Creation The generation of an energy from nothing.
  </para>
  <para>
    Destruction The elimination of an energy from existence.
  </para>
  <para>
    Concentration The gathering of energy from the nearby region to a
    more intense whole.
  </para>
  <para>
    Dissapation The scattering of energy into a more diffuse form.
  </para>
  <para>
    Transport To move through a distance.
  </para>
  <para>
    Anti-transport
  </para>
  <para>
    Binding To tie energy to a physical object.
  </para>
  <para>
    Releasing
  </para>
  <para>
    Transmutation
  </para>
  <para>
    Stasis
  </para>
  <para>
    Translocation To travel a distance without passing through the
    fabric of the current plane.
  </para>
  <para>
    Anchoring To prevent translocation.
  </para>
  <para>
    Influence
  </para>
  <para>
    Control
  </para>
  <para>
    Damage To rend or otherwise hurt.
  </para>
  <para>
    Restore
  </para>
  <para>
    Shield
  </para>
  <para>
    Activate Activates a spell
  </para>
  <para>
    Hold
  </para>
  <para>
    Components
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Components covers external props, preparation, and other
    components.
  </para>
  <para>
    Verbal - Verbal Components are vocal actions that aid in the casting
    of the spell. This is the default. It assumes a normal speaking
    voice chant.
  </para>
  <para>
    Somatic - Somatic Components are physical actions such as hand
    waving or finger moving.
  </para>
  <para>
    Material - Material components are physical objects or materials
    that aid in supplying, channeling, or directing energy.
  </para>
  <para>
    Preparation - Preparation covers any activity that may be performed
    before the spell is cast.
  </para>
  <para>
    True Name&gt;
  </para>
  <para>
    Components Properties
  </para>
  <para>
    Each casting components value to the design of the spell may be
    modified by the various properties of the Casting Components. If the
    material is rare or particularly fine, it will add to the spell's
    abilities.
  </para>
  <para>
    Expensive
  </para>
  <para>
    Cheap
  </para>
  <para>
    Rare
  </para>
  <para>
    Common
  </para>
  <para>
    Renewable
  </para>
  <para>
    Non-Renewable
  </para>
  <para>
    Reusable
  </para>
  <para>
    Non-Reusable
  </para>
  <para>
    Complex
  </para>
  <para>
    Loud
  </para>
  <para>
    Quiet
  </para>
  <para>
    Long
  </para>
  <para>
    Short
  </para>
  <para>
    Target Type
  </para>
  <para>
    Factors involved in the Application of the Energy Target type
    describes whether the energies affect a target, multiple targets, or
    no targets at all. A Target Type is what the spell is directed at. A
    spell with no Target Type is directed at the energy used in the
    spell. A ``Summon Fire'' spell has no target type. A ``Blast'Em''
    spell has a target type.
  </para>
  <para>
    No Target The spell is not intended to effect anything other than
    the base energy type used in the spell.
  </para>
  <para>
    Target,Self The spell is intended to effect the caster.
  </para>
  <para>
    Single Target The spell is intended to effect on one object or
    entity.
  </para>
  <para>
    Multiple Targets The spell is intended to effect multiple targets.
    The assumption here is that the Quantitative Effect is {\bf split}
    between the multiple targets wheareas an Area of Effect spell has
    that Quantitative Effect apply equally among all of the targets.
  </para>
  <para>
    Area of Effect The spell is intended to effect everything in a given
    area.
  </para>
  <para>
    A spell that has a range and a target but no Area of Effect would
    look like this: A spell that has a Target and an Area of effect but
    no range would look like: A spell that has a range and an Area of
    Effect would look like this: Target Components A spell targeted at
    living creatures may be narrowed down to effect only what is
    desired.Magic, Psi and Ki 8 Physical Form Mind Perception
  </para>
  <para>
    Spell Statistics
  </para>
  <para>
    Each spell has six statistics that are manipulatable and balanced by
    the spell designer.
  </para>
  <para>
    Resistance (RES). Resistance is how easily can the spell be
    resisted. The higher this value is the better it is for the caster.
    When doing spell design the designer will be modifying Resistance.
    When the spell design is complete the value for RES will be used to
    generate the Resistance Difficulty Factor (RDF) Equation 1.
    Resistence RDF = 7 - Resistance
  </para>
  <para>
    Quantitative Effect (QE). A quantitative value for the total effect
    a spell can have. QE is a numeric constant. This is translated to
    actual effect via a table. For Damage or Restoration spells this
    directly translates as the damage done by the spell.
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Diffulty Factor (CDF). The Difficulty Factor involved in
    casting the spell.
  </para>
  <para>
    Energy Cost (EC). The Energy Cost is the amount of Mental Fatigue
    used to cast the spell from start to finish.
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Time (CT). Casting Time is the time taken in pulses or any
    appropriate time unit. More casting time is lower cost, less casting
    time is higher cost.
  </para>
  <para>
    Range
  </para>
  <para>
    Attriubutes that are purchased in design.
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Time
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.1. Cost of Casting Time Scale in SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Time Scale Cost in SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Pulse 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Second 4
  </para>
  <para>
    5 Seconds 6
  </para>
  <para>
    1/2 Min 8
  </para>
  <para>
    2 Minutes 12
  </para>
  <para>
    10 Minutes 16
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Hour 24
  </para>
  <para>
    4 Hours 32
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Day 40
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Week 48
  </para>
  <para>
    Range
  </para>
  <para>
    Touch range spells require the caster to come into physical contact
    with the target. Numeric range spells have a scale and value that is
    bought with SDP. No Range Implies that the caster is the origin of
    the spell emanation Touch Requires the casters body to come into
    contact with the Target.
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.2. SDP Range Scale
  </para>
  <para>
    Range Scale SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    0 0
  </para>
  <para>
    0.1 Meter -2
  </para>
  <para>
    0.5 Meter -4
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Meter -8
  </para>
  <para>
    5 Meters -12
  </para>
  <para>
    10 Meters -16
  </para>
  <para>
    100 Meters -24
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Km -32
  </para>
  <para>
    Duration
  </para>
  <para>
    Duration(DUR). Duration is the length of time that the effect of the
    spell lasts. An Instaneous spell lasts for a very small and fleeting
    duration. Active Concentration duration spells last for as long as
    the caster concenmtrates on the spell. Any other actions the caster
    may partake of will be considered florentine actions. Passive
    Concentration duration spells last for as long as the caster is
    concious and or clear minded. Permanent spells last until dispelled
    or disrupted. Spells that have a numeric duration buy the scale and
    value of the duration. By default the scale is in pulses and the
    value is the mage's PSI. .
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.3. SDP Duration Time Scale
  </para>
  <para>
    Duration Time Scale SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Instantaneous 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Pulse -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Second -2
  </para>
  <para>
    5 Seconds -3
  </para>
  <para>
    1/2 Min -4
  </para>
  <para>
    2 Minutes -6
  </para>
  <para>
    10 Minutes -8
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Hour -12
  </para>
  <para>
    4 Hours -16
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Day -20
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Week -24
  </para>
  <para>
    AOE.
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.4. Cost of Area of Effect in SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Scale of AOE Cost in SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    0 0
  </para>
  <para>
    1 Meter 2
  </para>
  <para>
    2 Meters 4
  </para>
  <para>
    5 Meters 8
  </para>
  <para>
    10 Meters 16
  </para>
  <para>
    20 Meters 32
  </para>
  <para>
    Basic Rules of Spell Design
  </para>
  <para>
    One or more energy types must be used in the spell.
  </para>
  <para>
    To bring energy into use the caster must Summon, Create, Concentrate
    or have the energy otherwise available.
  </para>
  <para>
    To bring the power into use the caster do one of the following:
    Translocate it, Transport it, Bind it and physically move it, or
    Hold it and physically move it.
  </para>
  <para>
    Spells designed to inflict damage on a target must use the Damage
    action.
  </para>
  <para>
    Bindings are only needed when the energy needs to be anchored to an
    object or place.
  </para>
  <para>
    Spells that use Influence, Control, Damage and Restoration must have
    a target.
  </para>
  <para>
    A spell is designed by starting with 25 + Mages MST in SDP. All
    spell statistics are 0. CDF = 0, Resistance = 0; DUR = 0; RNG = 0;
    QE = 0; EC = 0.
  </para>
  <para>
    A {\it Laser} spell is designed as follows.
  </para>
  <para>
    We start with the Base spell type.
  </para>
  <para>
    We choose the Energy Type of Light.
  </para>
  <para>
    The first action needed is the Summoning of the Light.
  </para>
  <para>
    The next action is to transport the Light to the target.
  </para>
  <para>
    After transporting the Light, we must apply it to the target in
    order
  </para>
  <para>
    to damage it.
  </para>
  <para>
    Now let us design another spell. We will design a {\it Lightnings
    Hand} spell. We specify multiple targets. \section{Other Notes that
    are of interest} Investment Rituals are specific to the energy being
    used. Normally, invested items can resist. With sufficient
    preparation the resistance can be dropped to 0. Warding rituals are
    similiar. \section{Spell Design Tables} \tiny
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.5. SDP:Energy Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Energy Type SDP Speed
  </para>
  <para>
    Power -7 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Belief 0 7
  </para>
  <para>
    Stream -2 5
  </para>
  <para>
    Fabric -1 6
  </para>
  <para>
    Light -4 3
  </para>
  <para>
    Dark -4 3
  </para>
  <para>
    Life -4 3
  </para>
  <para>
    Death -4 3
  </para>
  <para>
    Fire -5 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Water -5 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Air -5 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Earth -5 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Shadow -6 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Starlight -6 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Nature -6 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Decay -6 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Telekinetics
  </para>
  <para>
    Phanokinetics
  </para>
  <para>
    Temporokinetics
  </para>
  <para>
    Energetics
  </para>
  <para>
    Biokinetics
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.6. SDP: Actions
  </para>
  <para>
    Action Type SDP Speed
  </para>
  <para>
    Det/Conceal -1 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Div/A-Div -1 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Summon/Banish -1 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Create/Destroy -1 10
  </para>
  <para>
    Conc/Dissapate -1 3
  </para>
  <para>
    Transport/A-Tra -1 4
  </para>
  <para>
    Bind/Release -1 7
  </para>
  <para>
    Trans/Stasis -1 8
  </para>
  <para>
    Translocate -1 9
  </para>
  <para>
    Hold -1 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Activate -2 5
  </para>
  <para>
    Fast Activate -3 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Influence -2 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Control -3 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Damage -3 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Restore -2 3
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.7. SDP:Casting Component Type
  </para>
  <para>
    Casting Component SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Verbal 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Somatic 4
  </para>
  <para>
    Material 4
  </para>
  <para>
    Preparation 4
  </para>
  <para>
    Runes 6
  </para>
  <para>
    True Name 8
  </para>
  <para>
    Requires to-hit roll 4
  </para>
  <para>
    Energy Held for duration -4
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.8. SDP:Casting Component Properties
  </para>
  <para>
    Component Properties SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Cheap 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Moderate 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Expensive 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Common 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Uncommon 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Rare 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Renewable 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Non-Renewable 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Reusable 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Non-Reusable 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Simple 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Moderate Complex 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Complex 3
  </para>
  <para>
    Quiet 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Normal Speech Level 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Loud 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Short 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Same Length as Spell 1
  </para>
  <para>
    Long 2
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.9. SDP:Target Types
  </para>
  <para>
    Factor Name SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    No Target 0
  </para>
  <para>
    Directed,Self -2
  </para>
  <para>
    Single Target -4
  </para>
  <para>
    Multiple Targets -8
  </para>
  <para>
    Spells -10
  </para>
  <para>
    Area of Effect -16
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.10. SDP Target Components
  </para>
  <para>
    Target Component SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Matter(Inanimate) -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Body(Animate) -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Mana(Inanimate) -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Lifeforce(Animate) -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Thought -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Perception -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Essence(Soul) -1
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.11. Costs for Misc. Factor Changes
  </para>
  <para>
    Factor SDP
  </para>
  <para>
    Rank linked QE 5/1
  </para>
  <para>
    Rank linked AOE 5/1
  </para>
  <para>
    Rank Linked RES 4/1
  </para>
  <para>
    Rank Linked DUR 3/1
  </para>
  <para>
    Rank Linked RNG 3/1
  </para>
  <para>
    Table 23.12. Costs for Factor Changes
  </para>
  <para>
    Factor Manipulation Factor/SDP Ratio
  </para>
  <para>
    AOE 1/2
  </para>
  <para>
    CDF 1/1
  </para>
  <para>
    RES 2/1
  </para>
  <para>
    QE 2/1
  </para>
  <para>
    DUR 1/1
  </para>
  <para>
    RNG 1/1
  </para>
  <para>
    EC 3/1
  </para>
  <para>
    Part IV. Word
  </para>
  <para>
    “...”
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    24. Deity
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    25. Demi-deity
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    26. Tor
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    27. Ur-vile
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    28. Demondim
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    29. Nator
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    30. Monk of the Word
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    31. Dragon
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    32. Namer
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    33. Avatar
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    34. Oracle
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    35. Priest/Priestess
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    36. Paladin
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    37. Vampyr
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    38. Dhampyr
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 24. Deity
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 25. Demi-deity
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 26. Tor
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 27. Ur-vile
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of Occult.
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 28. Demondim
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of Occult.
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 29. Nator
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of Occult.
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 30. Monk of the Word
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 31. Dragon
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 32. Namer
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 33. Avatar
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 34. Oracle
  </para>
  <para>
    .AKA Spaewife..
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 35. Priest/Priestess
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 36. Paladin
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of spirit as a call for balance.
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 37. Vampyr
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of spirit .
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Chapter 38. Dhampyr
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Table of Contents
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    Description
  </para>
  <para>
    ..Partakes of spirit .
  </para>
  <para>
    Constraints
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Benefits
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Typical Castings
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
  <para>
    Opinions of others ..
  </para>
  <para>
    ...
  </para>
</chapter>
