{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;}{\stylesheet}
\deflang1024\notabind\facingp\hyphauto1\widowctrl
\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\headery0\footery0\pgndec{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb0\sa1200\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb1200\sa0\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb0\sa1200\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb1200\sa0\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \par}\pard\sb373\sl-547 \b\fs49\f1\hyphpar0 The History of the Confederation\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\headery0\footery0\pgndec\pgnrestart{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\i\fs20 Chapter 1. Brief Description\tab \tab \par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\i\fs20 Page 1-\chpgn \tab \tab \par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \i\fs20 Chapter 1. Brief Description\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \i\fs20 Page 1-\chpgn \par}\pard\sb995\sl-456 \b\fs41\f1\hyphpar0 Chapter 1. Brief Description\keepn\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl-220 \b0\fs20\f0\hyphpar0 The Confederation of Systems, more commonly known as the Confederation or Confed, is a collection of solar systems and colonies banded together for both defense and trade. There has been a concerted effort by the Confed to limit interference in the internal workings of the actual systems. The Confed emcompasses a number of major racial groups. The Terrans and the various derivative races of \{\\it Homo Terra Prime\} constitute a major portion of the current population. The Alpha Centaurans and the derivative races of \{\\it Homo Alpha Centauran Prime\} constitute the next largest group followed closely by the Proximans \{\\it Homo Proxima Prime\}. There are no other known races currently members of the Confed. The duties of the Confederation as a governing body are quite simple: keep the peace \{\\em Between member systems\}. To this end each system donates a portion of its military services to the Confed as well as some monetary support.\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\headery0\footery0\pgndec\pgnrestart{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\i\fs20 Chapter 2. History\tab \tab \par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\i\fs20 Page 2-\chpgn \tab \tab \par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \i\fs20 Chapter 2. History\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \i\fs20 Page 2-\chpgn \par}\pard\sb311\sl-456 \b\fs41\f1\hyphpar0 Chapter 2. History\keepn\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl-220 \b0\fs20\f0\hyphpar0 The history of the Confederation is most properly the history of the Terrans. The Terrans were one of the primary forces behind the formation of the Confederation. The Terran History of the years immediately preceeding the year 2530 is found to have a nearly hysterical flavour to those used to reading the histories of less divided cultures. Most other cultures in the Confederation of Systems have a sharply defined predilection toward or away from war. Few cultures have the ambivalence of a Terran towards violence. During the time period following the Second World War the world focused in conflicts around the two main super powers of the time period. With a strong technological lead over the Soviet Bloc, the USA spent a great deal of energy and influence in combatting any gains made by the Soviet Bloc.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 During this time period there was a gradual decline in the health of the economies of the two Blocs as well as in actual scientific rather than technological knowledge growth. In addition there was a marked increase in religous fundamentalism in both the US and abroad in various Islamic and Hindu countries. Both of the superpowers of the time period tended to ignore the economic build up of other countries except when their own immediate well being seem threatened. Certainly , both countries had a great deal to worry about.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 As the technological wonders mounted in number and variety, so did the need for energy to grow and expand. Conventional sources proved insufficient and standard nuclear methods proved to be to dangerous. During this time period public confidence in conventional power sources was on the decline.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 The stresses placed on some of the smaller countries by the three ``super powers'' (EEC,Soviet Union, USA) caused many of the countries to form serious coalitions with similiarly inclined republics. Thus came into being the United Islamic States, sthe Indos Island States (Phillipines and Indonesia), and the loosley allied Scandinavian Coalition (the Scandic).\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 Multinational Corporations became commonplace as each country's industrial complex bought into the financial structure of several others. Space travel was almost an ignored project with only small bits of developement going on at a relatively low intensity .\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 Other methods of energy production became standard. With the discovery of a highly efficient technique for solar energy conversion came an increased traffic flow between the planet and its moon.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 The smaller countries begin to use the U.N. as a fairly sophisticated lever against both of the two super powers. The EEC, Israel, the Islamic state coalition, and the republic of India are primary supporters. in doing so they establish a fairly strong tradition for the U.N. as a military force and the use of Israeli Officers as advisors.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 Unrest over food shortages continued. in addition there was a slight resurgence of territoriality within the northwestern hemisphere.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 A small group of dedicated visionaries succeeded in secretly launching a colony ship from the sirius orbital station. the "Gang of l-5" was tried and convicted of treason. later pardoned as a result of public outcry.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 Exploration increased rapidly. all planets except Saturn and Jupiter are successfully landed upon.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 United Nations Standard units of Exchange become a standard media of exchange for all but NorAm Combine and the Soviet Union.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 Resource tensions cause the first major conflict of the 21st century, the Brushfire war, which lasts for all of 13 days and renders goodly portions of Somalia and the United Islamic Coordinate unihabitable. The Iraqi valley oil fields are made useless by heavy fallout.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 In the year 2046 a the lunar colony selene discovers the presence of a space craft landing site - over 2000 years old.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 In the early part of the 2050s there comes a long series of conflicts in the middle European and South American arena that feature major losses for each of the two super powers.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 During this time period the incarcerations begin. hundreds of thousands of North American citizens are jailed for Un-American and Un-Canadian stances. "Proctors" become become overseers of public education.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 World economic conditions worsen.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 The North American States experience the first net emigration of people in two centuries.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 The Soviet Union switches over to the U.N. Standard of exchange and agrees to adhere to U.N. Resource management restrictions. The founder of Jackl Power Inc. , suffering from a terminal illness, wills his fortune, his entire stock holding in Jackl Power (74\\%) , and his land holdings in upper New York State to the Mohawk Nation of Quebec. The Mohawk Nation uses the money to finance the building of the ``Red Jacket University of Power Engineering ''. In addition, they begin one of the largest public relations campaigns in history as part of an attempt to separate from the NorAm combine.\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0 The Alphan\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1440\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\headery0\footery0\pgndec\pgnrestart{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\i\fs20 Chapter 3. Major Terran World Powers\tab \tab \par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\i\fs20 Page 3-\chpgn \tab \tab \par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \i\fs20 Chapter 3. Major Terran World Powers\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb530\sa670\plain\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\tab \tab \i\fs20 Page 3-\chpgn \par}\pard\sb311\sl-456 \b\fs41\f1\hyphpar0 Chapter 3. Major Terran World Powers\keepn\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl-220 \fs20\hyphpar0  The Conservancy \keepn\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl-220 \b0\f0\hyphpar0 The Conservancy is both a set of Terran republics and the governing body that rules them. It is a quasi-mercantile organization funded by controlled tourism and payment for its Terraforming services.\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl-220 \hyphpar0 In land area it controls much of what is currently Mexico, Guatamala, all the way down to Peru and Brazil.\par\pard\sb150\li960\sl-220 \b\f1\hyphpar0  NorAm Combine \keepn\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl-220 \b0\f0\hyphpar0 The North Americam Combined States is the loose coalition of the Mohawk Nation, the United States of America, Canada, and Greenland.\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl-220 \hyphpar0 While it has adopted the U.N. currency as a monetary standard the NorAm Combine is not a member of the U.N.\par\pard\sb150\li960\sl-220 \b\f1\hyphpar0  United Islamic Coordinate \keepn\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl-220 \hyphpar0  The United Nations \keepn\par\pard\sb100\li1360\sl-220 \b0\f0\hyphpar0 The largest single world organization on Terra. It is composed, in the main, of the EEC countries, the Soviet Union, Australia, and Israel.\par\pard\sb100\sl-240 \hyphpar0 \\chapter\{Religious Organizations\} \\section\{Wiccans\} A semi-mystical coalition of churches derived from the pagan movements of the 1990s, the Unitarian Universalist and Humanist movements of the 2000s, and the New Bhudda movement of 2020. \\section\{Cestus Dei\} A result of the ``Fire Reformation'' of the Catholic Church and vatican IIII, the Cestus Dei are a missionary organization derived from the original Society of Jesus. As the name implies, the Cestus Dei is a militant brotherhood/Sisterhood \\section\{The New World church\} Moonies in space.\par}
