{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl {\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\uc1\pard\fi-1800\li1800\tx1800\cf1\b\f0\fs20 Jim Jackl-Mochel\par
From:\b0\tab wall@amt.tay1.dec.com\par
\b Sent:\b0\tab Thursday, February 12, 1998 1:06 PM\par
\b To:\b0\tab jmochel@foliage.com\par
\b Cc:\b0\tab ajackl@avs.com\par
\b Subject:\b0\tab Time Line (Alex, slightly revised) \par
\pard\cf0\par
Dates are Day/Year, where Year 1 = Game Year Vardigan began running.  I do not\par
know, in the cosmic scheme of things, what year that was.\par
\par
226/1\tab Vardigan, Erak, and Mala leave the rest of the party.\par
\par
227/1\tab Some rivers forded, one of them pretty substantial.  The hills begin\par
\tab to get steeper about halfway through the day, and they see snow and\par
\tab mountains, and a firehawk heading west.  Otherwise a quiet day.\par
\par
228/1\tab They enter the mountains, talking a good deal about Mordanith and his\par
\tab motives.  The party leaves a mark to indicate their passage.\par
\tab They encounter a party of Gherka herders.  The night is very\par
\tab cold, and Erak has heard tales of ghosts in the mountains.\par
\par
229/1\tab The sunrise that morning is strange.  A man they encounter explains\par
\tab this is due to the action of the Firelord, and informs them the desert\par
\tab is to the east.\par
\par
230/1\tab Press on.  Nothing of significance.\par
\par
231/1\tab Somewhere, Mordanith and the others are performing their ritual.  The\par
\tab sunrise loses its strange quality.\par
\par
232/1\tab They stop early in a valley.  A snow creature attacks in the evening.\par
\tab Vardigan breaks his scimitar in the fight.\par
\par
233/1\tab A day of travel.\par
\par
234/1\tab They follow a pass east, past the site of an avalanche.  They pass\par
\tab a place where the heads of snow creatures are mounted on poles.  From\par
\tab an escarpment, they can see the desert.  They follow the trail to a set\par
\tab of 8' steel doors.  This is the entrance to the home of the Gatekeepers\par
\tab of The Qeroshae, and they invite Vardigan and Company in.  There's a\par
\tab lot of talk about current events, culminating in a discussion of\par
\tab journeying to a city in the desert called Qasiradam, and something they\par
\tab call The Raising of The Dragon.  A man called Nadi will guide them\par
\tab part way, and teach them some of the local language.\par
\par
235/1\tab The Gatekeepers provide aid and provisions, including the repair of\par
\tab Vardigan's scimitar.  The party descends to the desert.  At a resting\par
\tab place, they encounter a Red Sash Assassin, who has apparently been\par
\tab dispatched to kill Vardigan.  Vardigan kills the assassin, and takes\par
\tab his head for probable payment of a bounty.  The party divides up the\par
\tab assassin's possessions.\par
\par
236/1\tab Descend further.  The terrain is becoming less rocky.  Nadi is teaching\par
\tab a language called Qassari, and some basic rules of behavior in the\par
\tab desert.  We come to an oasis in a village.  The head man is called\par
\tab Ozar, who asks if we are magicians, and what brings us to the desert.\par
\tab He later brings out his grandfather, Odi, and the aprty receive the\par
\tab hospitality of the village.  There's an extended discussion about\par
\tab swapping the horses for camels, but Vardigan is not interested.  He\par
\tab does secure a 4-legged, desert relative of a Gherka for a pack animal.\par
\par
237/1\tab Travel into the desert, leaving rocky areas behind.  Begin sleeping by\par
\tab day, traveling at night.  They see a great many shooting stars.\par
\par
238/1\tab The party encounters a lone man of advanced age in ragged clothes.\par
\tab They discuss this event, the Rising of the Dragon, and its possible\par
\tab connection to a holy book:\par
\par
\tab\tab "Three will come from the north.  A man of power\par
\tab\tab  will bring a key and open the gates, so that\par
\tab\tab  the Sun Blade may enter and raise the dragon."\par
\par
\tab This upsets Nadi.  Our visitor calls himself Bel, and advises they\par
\tab seek out a man called Kofi and tell him 'the hourglass has turned.'\par
\tab Bel also has some information about Red Sash Assassins, but Nadi\par
\tab continues to dislike him.\par
\par
\tab After pressing on, Nadi points out an ancient fortress once occupied\par
\tab by wizards.  They pass what might be a caravan, animals drawing carts\par
\tab on runners.\par
\par
239/1\tab Another oasis.  The caravan is here claiming the water is bad, and\par
\tab the party gives up some to avoid trouble.\par
\par
240/1\tab The party reaches a set of pillars and turns due east, heading into\par
\tab deep desert.  Nadi describes a set of landmarks.  Lightning arcs from\par
\tab a nearby hill, striking Vardigan, and people come swarming out of the\par
\tab sands.  The party is attacked by a wizard, but a second one named\par
\tab Tafir comes.  He identifies our attacker as a Lord of Light Or\par
\tab Darkness.  Tafir is a warden in this area.  He bids us farewell and\par
\tab moves off, and shifts shape just before he disappears.\par
\par
241/1\tab The terrain grows rocky again as they reach a town with a well.\par
\tab Vardigan passes out from his wounds, and has to be tended.  He\par
\tab overhears discussions that the person who attacked is searching\par
\tab for an artifact in holy places in the desert.\par
\par
242/1\tab Vardigan continues his recovery.  Juggles some for a village audience.\par
\par
243/1\tab The party moves on.  They see lights and chanting that Nadi\par
\tab speculates is a funeral.\par
\par
\par
244/1\tab Quiet travel day.\par
\par
245/1\tab Bad travel day.  The party comes on a Quatu camp.  Quatu are nomadic\par
\tab desert dwellers.  The Quatu come out and demand to know what the party\par
\tab is up to, and eventually the party is sent on its way.\par
\par
246/1\tab Spend time at a well, seeing a caravan and blue flickers of light that\par
\tab Nadi cannot identify.\par
\par
247/1\tab In the light of false dawn, a desert walker passes.  Nadi identifies\par
\tab this as a sort of undead.  They come upon a small camp and a village,\par
\tab where everyone is dead.  The dead start walking, and the party flees.\par
\tab Eventually, the party reaches Qasiradam and begins looking for Kofi.\par
\tab They are apprehended by Sultan's guards, who on learning their\par
\tab business brings them to Kofi.  Kofi turns out to be a dwarf.\par
\par
\tab Pass the evening at Kofi's house.  He has information about the dragon,\par
\tab a force bound by wizards.  Knowledge of it lost in the purge of\par
\tab Abjurationists.  He would like the party to speak to a wise man.\par
\tab When leaving, the party sees a figure with very long fingers in the\par
\tab darkness.\par
\par
248/1\tab The day passes quietly.  That evening, the party returns to Kofi's\par
\tab for dinner and to meet with the wise man.  There is discussion of\par
\tab desert walkers before the wise man arrives.  He is old and very\par
\tab withered.\par
\par
\tab A discussion of possible connection between the man looking for\par
\tab artifacts and the Firelord.  The wise man speaks of a man of air,\par
\tab which the party takes to be Mordanith.  Discussion of whether\par
\tab Morphus is still alive.  The wise man asks if Vardigan has come to\par
\tab raise the dragon.  Vardigan doesn't know.  The wise man, known as\par
\tab The Wisdom Of The Desert, says:\par
\par
\tab\tab "You are the path, not the walker.  That which\par
\tab\tab  cannot be seen can be seen in that which is twice.\par
\tab\tab  Your answer may not be here.  Follow gray sand in\par
\tab\tab  a sandstorm.  What they seek is not important."\par
\par
\tab More talk, and the sharing of a water pipe.  Kofi advises the\par
\tab captain of the Sultan's guard will be on the lookout for\par
\tab foreigners, fearing spies.  This discussion is interrupted by\par
\tab a disturbance.  Vardigan and Erak pursue and slay two of the\par
\tab Sultan's spies.  They agree to meet Kofi again in six days time\par
\tab in the desert, where the party saw the tribes gathered.\par
\par
249/1\tab Storm breaks out of his stall and leads people a merry chase.\par
\tab This commotion attracts the captain of the guard, and Vardigan\par
\tab is arrested, but before he can be led off a woman in black attacks,\par
\tab bristling with weapons.  Vardigan dismembers her.  She is identified\par
\tab as some flavor of witch, and Vardigan is asked to say nothing.\par
\par
\tab The commotion with Storm is sorted out, and Vardigan is summoned to\par
\tab the presence of the Sultan.  Nadi mentions that the tribes have tried\par
\tab to take Qasiradam in the past.  On the way to the Sultan's palace,\par
\tab Vardigan passes two Red Sash Assassins, but there is no trouble.\par
\tab He's brought to a chamber with minstrels by a dapper man.  The Captain\par
\tab of the Guard comes.  Eventually, a man with a thick black beard, the\par
\tab third son of the Sultan, comes out.  He holds the title Peacekeeper.\par
\tab Vardigan mentions seeing the massed tribes.  Things go black.\par
\par
\tab Vardigan has a dream about leading his people against a massed army of\par
\tab undead.  He wakes up chained in a dungeon with flowing water.  He pulls\par
\tab the chains free of the wall , and wanders through tunnels to make his\par
\tab escape, including climbing rocks and going through a waterfall.  At\par
\tab last he stops in a cavern to rest.  Another dream of a battlefield,\par
\tab his people against Githdani.\par
\par
250/1\tab Vardigan manages to get back in the city (after killing two\par
\tab shepherds) and checks the corrals.  The animals are not disturbed.\par
\tab Then he seeks out Kofi.  The others are at the house of the guard\par
\tab captain.  Vardigan's possessions are being sought.  A bounty has\par
\tab been posted on him.  That night, Vardigan dreams of Falstaff, and the\par
\tab nightmare of undead returns.  In it, Vardigan is wielding a black\par
\tab scimitar.\par
\par
251/1\tab Hiding out.  The palace was attacked, and the attackers stole bodies.\par
\tab There are whispers of treachery naming the captain of the guard.  He\par
\tab eventually comes to the house, and gives Vardigan information about\par
\tab moving around the palace secretly.  Someone named Nakour is looking for\par
\tab Vardigan.\par
\par
252/1\tab Vardigan and Erak arrange to meet Nakour, but they are discovered by\par
\tab the Sultan's guards and are chased through the city.  They escape with\par
\tab the help of the Quatu.  Vardigan is brought to a grotto outside the\par
\tab city, where the Quatu are massed.\par
\par
\tab That night, Nadi and Mala are brought by Nakoour, and the Wisdom of the\par
\tab Desert comes as well.  This blade in Vardigan's dreams is real, and\par
\tab it should be in the city somewhere.  It was made by Arioch, and used\par
\tab by an ancient king of the Qassari to slay the tribes.  The tribes\par
\tab believe Vardigan's coming has been foretold and they are ready to\par
\tab exact their revenge.\par
\par
\tab Nadi doesn't want to be involved in all this, but Vardigan points out\par
\tab he has little choice.\par
\par
253/1\tab They are visited by a white man with blond hair.  His name is Simon\par
\tab Lefevre, and he is a Frankish mercenary, a Sun Warrior.  He will be\par
\tab participating in the impending attack.  Vardigan can get them into\par
\tab the city.  That night he leads an expedition to confirm the path.\par
\par
254/1\tab There is a terrible battle, culminating in the fall of the city to the\par
\tab Quatu.  The Sultan is overthrown and his court is slain.\par
\par
\tab In the aftermath, Vardigan meets with the Wisdom of the Desert and\par
\tab confers with Falstaff, who confirms the presence of the blade.  It\par
\tab is guarded by a trap, a goblin, and a demon of fear.\par
\par
255/1\tab The rest of the city falls under the control of the Quatu.  There is\par
\tab a great deal of looting.  Eventually, Erak and Vardigan return to the\par
\tab city to find the Quatu leader.  They will be aided in their search for\par
\tab the blade by someone named Rashid.  They also meet Kofi.  Vardigan\par
\tab says that refugees ought to be allowed to leave the city unmolested.\par
\par
256/1\tab The search for the blade, culminating in a great battle with its\par
\tab guardian in which Erak and Vardigan are almost killed.  Erak is\par
\tab maimed.  Vardigan has visions of a terrible court of an undead lord,\par
\tab where Mordanith and Morphus are also present.\par
\par
260/1\tab Erak will live, but he will be crippled.\par
\par
264/1\tab Mala has been fending off guards.\par
\par
265/1\tab A great deal of activity beings, to celebrate the final victory and\par
\tab the return of the shiek.  The sheik gives Vardigan an obsidian\par
\tab medallion with a ruby tower.  They give him the title 'Tower of Blood'\par
\par
266/1\tab A Dissenta Captain pays a visit, and tries to kill Storm.\par
\par
274/1\tab Quatu tribesmen report seeing Morphus and Mordanith.  Erak gives\par
\tab Vardigan a holy symbol of Nahakar, a bronze circle and spear.\par
\par
280/1\tab Simon Lefevre has been suffering from a fever.  He has expressed\par
\tab interest in travelling with Vardigan when he leaves.  Erak will\par
\tab stay behind.\par
\par
313/1\tab After rest and preparation, the party takes leave.\par
\par
315/1\tab The party is chased from an oasis by a giant snake.  They see signs\par
\tab of activity at the ancient citadel.\par
\par
320/1\tab The party reaches the place where Vardigan killed the Red Sash\par
\tab Assassin.\par
\par
321/1\tab Encounter a wyvern on return to the citadel of the Gatekeepers.\par
\par
322/1\tab Vardigan commisions a shield from the Gatekeepers, and undertakes\par
\tab teaching Mala to fight.  Over the next thirty days, there will be a\par
\tab great deal of exploring of the tunnels and caverns near the Citadel,\par
\tab but this turns up nothing of significance.\par
\par
357/1\tab A party of Dorian wizards calls at the citadel.  Vardigan disguises\par
\tab himself, but the leader, a Master Alterationist named Etarran, sees\par
\tab through the disguise.  He refers to the blade as a forging of\par
\tab darkness, and gives some advice on its care and use, and gives Vardigan\par
\tab a letter to introduce himself in Mardin and a gift in the form of a\par
\tab scroll.\par
\par
\tab The wizards and the party remain for some time.  Over the course of\par
\tab this period the party encounters Bel again and learns something about\par
\tab dealing with the mountains from a geomancer.  There is a conclave of\par
\tab geomancers and a great magical battle.  Vardigan's shield is finished.\par
\par
052/2\tab Mala faces the fact Vardigan will never be beholden to her.\par
\par
069/2\tab Nadi comes with news of Qasiradam.  It's fallen into factional anarchy.\par
\tab The Dorian Alterationists are there, and Mordanith and Morphus have\par
\tab passeed through as well.  They have established something resembling\par
\tab peace in the region.\par
\par
089/2\tab The citadel is visited by Keverian, the Lord of Light, who seems to\par
\tab be on the way to godhood.\par
\par
100/2\tab The party departs from the citadel, and encounters a pyromancer who\par
\tab gives news of grave tidings in Mardin.  Jherek Firelord is on the\par
\tab march.\par
\par
101/2\tab The party encounters a figure that rather resembles a desert walker.\par
\tab It warns of a great evil having been unleashed.  The supposition is\par
\tab that this is the demon from Qasiradam, released with the finding of\par
\tab the blade.\par
\par
103/2\tab The party encounters the body inhabited by the demon, now dead.  A\par
\tab pack of wolves led by the demon attacks.  There is a great battle,\par
\tab great enough for Simon Lefevre to be moved to invoke Heimdall.  Mala\par
\tab is wounded, and eventually dies.\par
\par
104/2\tab The party is forced back to the citadel.  They return with the aid of\par
\tab a geomancer they encounter at a henge they bypassed before.  Over the\par
\tab next ten days, the geomancers will seek out and do battle with the\par
\tab demon.  They are unable to kill it, but they can weaken it greatly.\par
\tab They provide Vardigan with magical items to aid in doing final battle\par
\tab with it.\par
\par
114/2\tab Vardigan sets off to hunt the demon.\par
\par
116/2\tab In the course of hunting the demon, Vardigan has more terrible dreams,\par
\tab battles with Dissenta, and talks with Falstaff.  He encounters a woman\par
\tab named Talla, an archer all in white hunting scnow creatures.\par
\par
117/2\tab Vardigan does battle with the demon, and is nearly killed.\par
\par
119/2\tab Talla and Simon come and help Vardigan, and bring him back to the\par
\tab citadel.  He'll be some time recovering.  Seven seperate attempts to\par
\tab steal Vardigan's scimitar will be made.\par
\par
158/2\tab News of the world beyond reaches the citadel.  Mardin is half\par
\tab conquered and Jherek Firelord has acquired a new source of power,\par
\tab though Falstaff and the other Sun Lords seem to have stopped the\par
\tab advance.\par
\par
\tab This news is brought by an illusionist named Oman.  He also\par
\tab indicates that artifcats have begin appearing:\par
\par
\tab The Divining Blade\tab\tab By a feudal baroness\par
\tab Heimdall's Shield\tab\tab By the lord paladin\par
\tab The Defender\tab\tab\tab By a feudal lord\par
\tab The Eye of Arcan\tab\tab By a grey elf in the north\par
\tab The Blade of Fire\tab\tab By Nahakar\par
\tab The Cup Of The Elven King\tab By The King of the Lizard Men\par
\par
\tab And the dead stir.\par
\par
167/2\tab Vardigan's 19th birthday.\par
\par
174/2\par
\par
\tab The gods are warring.  Nahakar, Keverian, and Kay are involved,\par
\tab but the outcome is unknown.\par
\par
\par
175/2\tab The party departs the citadel once more.  In the next ten days,\par
\tab they cross a huge ice bridge and see the place where Mordanith and\par
\tab Morphus did their summoning.\par
\par
185/2\tab The party reaches the lowlands.  The weather seems to have been\par
\tab corrupted.\par
\par
187/2\tab The party meets a caravan of Hetasians bound for the Qeroshae,\par
\tab thinking it is paradise.\par
\par
191/2\tab The party comes upon a change in the landscape, a huge plateau.\par
\tab They are apprehended by a cowled figure in red who tells them they\par
\tab are trespassing on Thunder Plateau.  He is an Evoker called Eraphani\par
\tab Estavar, and wears a silver and ruby ring.\par
\par
192/2\tab The sunrise has a strange aura again.\par
\par
195/2\tab Encounter a Dorian prince, attended by a paladin of Arioch.  The party\par
\tab gives tehm news of Qasiradam.\par
\par
196/2\tab After a mana storm, the party sets out for Mardin.\par
\par
198/2\tab The party encounters a hermit, and sees a caravan in the distance.\par
\par
199/2\tab The party reaches the Temple of Hercules, to a joyful reunion with the\par
\tab priest and his attending dryads.\par
\par
203/2\tab After weathering another mana storm, the party reaches Mardin.\par
\par
204/2\tab The party does battle with 2 Red Sash Assassins, 2 city guards, and a\par
\tab mob.  Vardigan meets with Falstaff and tells him of his errand to the\par
\tab Alterationists.  They strike the bargain for magical tutelage for\par
\tab Vardigan's people.  More Red Sash Assassins are grist for Vardigan's\par
\tab mill, and eventually this teaches them he's a target they can't take.\par
\par
205/2\tab The party sets out for the Frankish lands, Simon's home.\par
\par
208/2\tab The party does battle with and slays three green-robed wizards.\par
\par
210/2\tab As the land becomes more barren, the party passes a large gray tower.\par
\par
212/2\tab The part encounters a broken-down wagon, which turns out to be yet\par
\tab yet another Dissenta trap.\par
\par
217/2\tab The party encounters its first Frankish merchants.\par
\par
218/2\tab The party reaches a walled town, the extermity of Frankish settlement.\par
\tab They spend the night in a barn, and meet a girl named Mala.\par
\par
221/2\tab The party reaches an inn of sorts after a day in the rain.  A courier,\par
\tab a woman who looks like an elf (but isn't) enters.  While she and Simon\par
\tab get drunk, she gives news of coming across the badlands, where there\par
\tab has been a slave rebellion.  A man in his 40s arrives.  He is a herald\par
\tab for one of the Wizard-King's generals.\par
\par
222/2\tab The party, the elf-woman, and the herald all leave together.  They\par
\tab reach a fortress.  Simon makes love with the courier.\par
\par
223/2\tab The storm finally breaks.\par
\par
224/2\tab The party departs for Simon's homeland.\par
\par
227/2\tab The party reaches a castle held by Simon's relatives.  The heir to the\par
\tab places is there, drunk, whining over a woman.  Vardigan makes himself\par
\tab comfortable and fends off the serving girls.\par
\par
228/2\tab Vardigan is brought to the Scriptorum at the Temple of Heimdall by a\par
\tab priest, a cousin of Simon's.  There, the blade is identified as having\par
\tab four aspects:\par
\par
\tab\tab A Body Guardian\par
\tab\tab A Mind Guardian\par
\tab\tab An Expression Of Will\par
\tab\tab An Expression Of the Will of Arioch.\par
\par
\tab Vardigan is granted a gift -- he may once call on Athena to aid his\par
\tab speech.\par
\par
229/2\tab Vardigan meets the lord of the castle.  Simon's cousin Belvedere\par
\tab brings word of family trouble.  Another Baron has levelled a\par
\tab challenge.\par
\par
230/2\tab Simon and Vardigan challenge this other lord and his champion.\par
\par
231/2\tab Rodriguez, the other baron's champion, is taken prisoner.  Simon\par
\tab says he will stay and see things straightened out.\par
\par
232/2\tab Vardigan sets out alone, leaving the Lefevre lands.\par
\par
233/2\tab Vardigan meets a merchant, and exchanges news.\par
\par
234/2\tab Vardigan changes some money at a town and presses on across the\par
\tab Frankish countryside.  He camps by a river, that appears to be\par
\tab haunted by memories of some ancient battle.\par
\par
235/2\tab Vardigan reaches the road that leads to the capital.  He comes upon\par
\tab a priestess of Heimdall with a disabled oxcart, but she takes umbrage\par
\tab at his approach.  She is being victimized by a vampire -- her late\par
\tab husband.  Vardigan spirits her to safety in a temple.\par
\par
236/2\tab Vardigan and the Saren named Agatha reach a town, and Vardigan is\par
\tab brought to see the Baron, who calls him a Prince.  He gives Vardigan a\par
\tab letter granting passage through the Frankish lands.\par
\par
237/2\tab Vardigan is questioned by some knights bearing a lion-and-spear banner,\par
\tab but the letter satisfies them.  Vardigan passes a castle and reaches\par
\tab a town.\par
\par
238/2\tab Vardigan enters a forest, where the locals are having trouble with\par
\tab werewolves.\par
\par
239/2\tab Vardigan reaches a huge traffic jam outside the Frankish capital,\par
\tab where he encounters a Frankish Countess, Anastasia.  She is off to her\par
\tab aunt's estate, and he goes with her.  There is an attack by Dissenta,\par
\tab which Vardigan dispatches.\par
\par
240/2\tab Vardigan keeps company with the Countess and her relations.  That\par
\tab night he goes to the Countess's bed.\par
\par
241/2\tab Falstaff finally brings them to the head of the line of people waiting\par
\tab to see the king.   Vardigan is invited to a feast.  The Countess's\par
\tab cousin has an assignation with some sort of sorceror.  The Countess\par
\tab has come to see the king regarding her own lands.  Much discussion\par
\tab of varied topics.\par
\par
244/2\tab The Countess has an argument with her uncle the Baron.\par
\par
245/2\tab The Countess obtains the writs she wants from the king.  She and\par
\tab Vardigan encounter a death knight, but there is no violence.\par
\par
246/2\tab Vardigan and the Countess sneak off -- there's reason to believe\par
\tab she's being watched and might be interfered with.\par
\par
249/2\tab Vardigan gets the feeling the demon is near.\par
\par
255/2\tab Some knights attempt to stop the Countess returning home.  The demon\par
\tab destroys a ghoul that's been pursuing.\par
\par
\par
256/2\tab They close on Anastasia's lands.  They meet her Master Huntsman, and\par
\tab eventually reach the 4-story stone manor house.  Everyone is surprised\par
\tab to see her.\par
\par
\tab A messenger has news.  The Fairfields, Anastasia's western neighbors,\par
\tab were burned out a while ago.  No luck finding the culprits.  Some of\par
\tab them escaped.  This messenger comes from one Marchand.  It is decided\par
\tab Vardigan will go to see them with Edward, Anastasia's right-hand man.\par
\par
\tab Vardigan has more bad dreams.\par
\par
258/2\tab Marchand holds a keep, and he's training troops for something.\par
\tab Vardigan impresses the assembly with his own combat prowess.  A\par
\tab servant girl named Cheryse comes to talk to him about goings on there.\par
\tab She's afraid of her lord, and spends the night (chastely) with\par
\tab Vardigan.\par
\par
259/2\tab Vardigan is invited to stay, but he decides to move on.  An oddly\par
\tab dressed priest bursts in, uninvited but unimpeded.  There are rumors\par
\tab of trouble with their overlord, a Duke.  The church turns out to be\par
\tab equally strange.  Vardigan encounters a half-Daushauan captain of\par
\tab mercenaries whose men are being employed to collect taxes.  Things stay\par
\tab peaceful.\par
\par
260/2\tab The mercenaries ride off in the direction of the Duke's holding.\par
\par
261/2\tab A new visitor is at the manor.  Antoine, some sort of long-haired\par
\tab sorceror, warning of gathering dark magic.  He is dispatched with a\par
\tab brief message to the capital.\par
\tab\par
\tab Others will be taking longer reports.  Vardigan has an argument with\par
\tab Anastasia's steward.\par
\tab\par
\tab Something definitely seems to be brewing and it would be bad if\par
\tab she were caught in a siege, but she is determined to stay.\par
\par
266/2\tab Somewhere along the way, Vardigan has figured out he can command the\par
\tab demon that follows the blade.  He dispatches it to watch the Hetasian\par
\tab border.\par
\par
269/2\tab An attempt is made on Anastasia's life, thwarted by Vardigan.  Oscar,\par
\tab her military chief, is not pleased by this penetration of the defenses.\par
\par
270/2\tab Antoine returns.  He was successful.\par
\par
274/2\tab Falstaff pays a visit, apparently just to see what's up.\par
\par
276/2\tab Simon Lefevre arrives, in the company of 30 knights.  Of course, if\par
\tab Marchand means trouble, he has 2000 troops nearby.\par
\par
\pard\fi-1800\li1800\tx1800\cf1\par
}
 