Good morning Alex,

I figured I would start some gaming design discussions because your life and my life are not busy enough already.

So there are several major changes that I have been looking at and mulling over:

1. Simplifying what players have to do in order to determine the percentage
chance. I want the math to be as simple as possible, but no simpler. I would prefer a table lookup 
or something like that. 

In an ideal world, the player should be able to add and subtract to create a
rating or difficulty factor that maps directly to a percentage chance in such a
way that it is elastic at the high-end (i.e. at the high-end of skill
complicated maneuvers have much less of an impact on your ability to do things
than at the low end of skill).

I have attached a document that includes a plot of a function that I think is in
the ballpark. The function can be massaged once I am clear on the scale of numbers. 

2. Separating out the spiritual from the intellectual in terms of magic systems.

One of the things that has been nagging at me is the mapping shamanism,
priesthood and paladin-ness to the various mental strength and other properties.
It really hit the head for me when I realized that I could not model some my
favorite characters in fiction that were holy but not necessarily mentally
adept.

I am looking at the following breakdown:

Mental

	Primary stats like (mental strength, mental agility, mental endurance, etc.)
	Secondary stats like (mental combat ability, etc.)

Physical

	Primary statistics like (physical strength,	physical agility,	physical endurance,	etc.)
	Secondary stats like (physical combat ability, etc.)
	

Spiritual

	Primary statistics like 
	
		Ki (innate power of spirit)
		Fastness (how solidly rooted the characters spirit is, kind of like endurance)
		Virtue (How consistent the character is with their own beliefs)
		
	Secondary statistics like
	
		Projection (The ability of the character to project Ki externally)
		Control (The ability to finally control Ki)
		Sensitivity (the ability to sense spirit in action)
		
		Channeling (ability of the character to act as a channel for spirit)
		Communion (ability of the character act as a vessel or merge point for the spirit of another).
		
	
3. Simplifying how perception/reaction is factored into the game system. Because
of the recent research into how skill and perceptions interact in the real
world, I think we can drastically simplify game mechanics without sacrificing
anything.

I once had some brilliant ideas on this that I forgot to write down. My key
starting point in all of this is that random chance does nothave as much of an
impact on who goes first as I used to think. Experience in the type of actions
and context of those actions has a significantly greater affect. This argues
that there should be a way to lower or eliminate randomness in determining who
goes first. 

Whether or not it should be eliminated is a whole other question...


4. Dealing with damage types in the scale of damage. Dragon versus mouse that
sort of thing. Pistol versus helicopter, etc.
